Bordered by fine sandy beaches (delightful if you're a polar bear), Scotland's third city, Aberdeen, is often called the "Granite City" because its buildings are constructed largely of pink or gray granite, hewn from the Rubislaw quarries. The harbor is one of the country's largest fishing ports, filled with kipper and deep-sea trawlers, and Aberdeen lies on the banks of the salmon- and trout-filled Don and Dee rivers. Spanning the Don is the Brig o' Balgownie, a steep Gothic arch begun in 1285.

Although it hardly compares with Glasgow and Edinburgh, Aberdeen is the center of a vibrant university; it boasts a few marvelous museums and galleries; and it's known for great nightlife and shopping, the best in the northeast. Old Aberdeen is the seat of one of Scotland's major cathedrals, St. Machars. It's also a good base for exploring the greatest castles of Grampian and the towns and villages along the splendid salmon-filled river, Deeside.



Welcome to Aberdeen City and Shire where you’ll find the very best Scotland has to offer. From vibrant modern city life and romantic hideaways, to tranquil country breaks and a host of adrenaline packed outdoor opportunities. Aberdeen's list is endless, the choice is yours. 

Home to the country’s largest national park, a dramatically imposing coastline and of course the city itself, there is so much to explore in Aberdeen City and Shire. Fusing striking granite architecture, a rich and inspiring history, a dynamic modern arts scene and perhaps Scotland's strongest industrial heritage; the country's third largest city offers a host of treasures, just waiting to be explored again & again. 

A favourite Royal destination for over 150 years, Aberdeen City and Shire's abundance of attractions, activities and eateries would keep any visitor returning satisfied. Benefiting from stunning scenery and a rich and vibrant surrounding wildlife, the area isn't called 'Scotland's Larder' for nothing! 

Take in views of the Cairngorms National Park from above in a hang-glider, or choose from a wealth of local golf courses, fishing pools and wildlife hot spots. Or, for visitors looking to experience Aberdeen's vibrant modern side, look no further than the city's West End boutiques, award-winning restaurants and extensive shopping malls 

From the golden eagles spotted in the Cairngorms, to the iconic red deer stag standing atop the Lairig Ghru - Aberdeenshire is home to an inspiring range of animals. 

The gannet colony at Troup Head is a major attraction, as it's the only one on the UK mainland. Every Autumn photographers, artists and birdwatchers flock to the Loch of Strathbeg, to see displays of flighting geese in Scotland's largest landlocked lagoon. 

The National Nature Reserve at the Sands of Forvie, one of the country's largest dunes, lies about 12 miles north of the bustling city of Aberdeen. This unspoilt spectacle boasts a varied habitat of river estuary, coastal cliffs, colourful moorland and beautiful golden sand dunes. 

Upland reserves, such as the beautiful birch woods of the Muir of Dinnet, offer an insight into Scotland's natural habitat. Whilst places are deliberately not publicised, if you're lucky you can spot eagles close up, or ospreys fishing, or deer rutting. 

Look out for many other forms of wildlife throughout wild Aberdeenshire, including badgers, foxes, bats, red squirrels and numerous varieties of birds of prey. With miles of waymarked and sign posted trails, you're sure to find lots to explore.