<b>Nanjing</b> (南京; Nánjīng), historically also Nanking, is the capital city of <a href="/en/Jiangsu_Province" title="Jiangsu Province" class="mw-redirect">Jiangsu Province</a> in the <a href="/en/People%27s_Republic_of_China" title="People's Republic of China" class="mw-redirect">People's Republic of China</a>.
It is situated in the lower reaches of the <b>Yangtze River</b> and is the central city of the lower Yangtze Basin.
Nanjing means "southern capital" (versus Beijing meaning "northern capital".) It is a renowned historical and cultural city and was the capital of several dynasties over the course of Chinese history. It has many historical sites including Ming tombs that are on the <a href="/en/UNESCO_World_Heritage_List" title="UNESCO World Heritage List">UNESCO World Heritage List</a>. It was most recently the capital of China under the Kuomintang, from 1927 until their retreat to Taiwan in 1949. With a current urban population of approximately 5 million people, Nanjing is an important centre for commerce and trade in Eastern China.
Nanjing's Lukou International Airport is about 35km from the city centre and serves inbound international flights from Japan, Korea, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore and Germany. You can also fly to Lukou International from most major cities in China, including Hong Kong (Shanghai now also has a daily night-time flight from Pudong primarily aimed at connecting international travellers.) There is a shuttle bus available from the airport.
There are several options to get from the airport to Nanjing. The 30-minute taxi journey to the city centre costs ¥100 or more (there's a ¥20 toll about 3 km away from the airport). It is usually cheaper to take the airport bus to the centre and take a taxi from there.
There are two express-bus routes from the airport to downtown Nanjing - both terminate at the railway station and connect with the subway and local city buses. The services run at 15-minute intervals with one line serving Zhonghuamen (also has good metro and bus connections) and Hanzhongmen, while the other runs to the east of the city and stops close to Fuzimiao. A one-way ticket costs ¥20 and can be purchased from the kiosk outside the arrivals hall.
WARNING - if taking the bus to the airport from Zhonghuamen, ignore the touts who hang around outside the bus station and metro station claiming to operate the official bus service - they will usually quote the same price, you'll be loaded into the back of a small, run-down minibus and will usually drop you off several kilometres short of the airport and claim that the fare into the actual airport is several hundred yuan. To find the actual bus service, enter the bus station building and go to Gate 7 - buy the ticket from the kiosk at the gate, not the main ticket office.
If you're flying into Shanghai, there are bus and train services that travel to and from Nanjing. The bus runs four times a day from Shanghai Pudong International Airport, with a stop at Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport and then on to Nanjing Zhongyangmen (and back). From there, take the metro or a taxi to your destination. It costs ¥136 from Shanghai and the trip takes about five hours (only about four at night). Many people prefer to take a train to Shanghai then bus, taxi or train to Nanjing.
There are many daily departures to and from <a href="/en/Shanghai" title="Shanghai">Shanghai</a> Station and Shanghai Hongqiao Station, which is about four hours away on slow trains and around 75 minutes on the new fast ones (see <a href="/en/High-speed_rail_in_China" title="High-speed rail in China">High-speed rail in China</a>). Both types of train also stop at <a href="/en/Wuxi" title="Wuxi">Wuxi</a> and <a href="/en/Suzhou" title="Suzhou">Suzhou</a> and some continue on to <a href="/en/Hangzhou" title="Hangzhou">Hangzhou</a>. Fast trains offer better equipment and are comparable with a business class flight, while slow trains are older and without as many amenities, but may suit people travelling on a budget.
The main station is simply Nanjing Station, although locals refer to it as Nanjing North. It is situated on the north shore of Xuanwu Lake and is also very close to Zhongyangmen long-distance bus station. It is modern and more like an airport than a train station - the departure areas are on the 2nd and 3rd floors and you'll go through a ticket and security check to enter this area. Look for your train number on the indicator boards to find the right waiting room and when your train is called (usually 10 minutes before departure) just follow the crowd to find the right platform. Arrivals are in the basement, as is the taxi stand and the entrance to the subway station. The ticket office, pedestrian entrance and the local-bus station is on the first floor.
Zhonghuamen Station (adjacent to Zhonghuamen metro and bus stations, formerly called Nanjing South, changed its name to Zhonghuamen Station to prevent duplicate the name with the new high-speed Nanjing South station opened in June 2011) is to undergo a major redevelopment and most long-distance overnight services will depart from here in the future. Although it's only a tiny station with a few services a day, the majority of services between Nanjing and Huangshan (Yellow Mountain) will stop here so it's worth booking a ticket to Zhonghuamen to avoid a slow 45-minute journey around the eastern suburbs to the main station. The south station is located about 1 block east of Zhonghuamen metro station so onwards connections are easy and usually quicker than from the main station.
All passenger service at Nanjing West Station had been suspended in early 2012. The former terminal station just west of the downtown area, built in 1908, the facilities will be converted as a railway museum in the next few years.
The new Nanjing South Station is huge, and served by Nanjing metro. It is the main station for long-haul high-speed trains to Beijing, Shanghai, Xuzhou, Zhengzhou, Jinan, Tianjin, Wuhan, Hefei and other destination. For destinations like Zhenjiang, Danyang, Changzhou, Wuxi, Suzhou, Kunshan, you may find Nanjing Station is more convenient. There are two 300 km/h high-speed rail lines connect Nanjing and Shanghai. One is Shanghai–Nanjing HSR line depart at Nanjing's main station. The other one is Beijing–Shanghai HSR line depart at Nanjing South Station. If you are going to Shanghai, it's okay to use either line, and trains on Beijing–Shanghai lines are usually faster as it is a long distance line and has less stops. But if you are going to intermediate stations like Zhenjiang, Changzhou, Wuxi, or Suzhou, Shanghai–Nanjing HSR line at Nanjing's main station is preferred, as stations on Beijing–Shanghai line are usually far away from the urban area of these cities (Shanghai and Kunshan are exceptions, both rail lines use the same station). There is also a 250 km/h high-speed rail line connect Nanjing with Hefei and Wuhan. A trip to Hefei takes around one hour, and Wuhan 3.5 to 4 hours. A ride to Beijing usually take 4 hours on a G-series bullet train.
Nanjing is well connected to Shanghai, Hangzhou and most destinations within Jiangsu, Anhui and northern Zhejiang provicnces by bus as well as longer overnight sleeper services to Beijing (12 hours) and Guangzhou (24 hours). Most services depart from Zhongyangmen bus station, a large, clean modern terminal in the north of the city approximately 10 minutes walk to the west of the main train station. The station has English signange and announcements but the ticket clerks generally cannot understand English. Some services into Anhui province depart from Nanjing South (Zhonghuamen) station, which is adjacent to Zhonghuamen metro station. There are also bus stations serving nearby destinations at Hanzhongmen, Nanjing East (to the north of Purple Mountain) and Nanjing North (on the west side of the Yangtze River) although they are less useful to travellers.
There is a modern highway system between Shanghai and Nanjing, which can allow you to travel quite quickly from city to city. Beware of traffic in the morning and evening rush hours. If you're just one person it may be much cheaper to travel by train, but if you're in a larger group sharing a car service can be cheaper. Keep in mind that you need to be a very experienced driver to handle Chinese traffic, so you may be better served using trains and buses between the cities and taxis in the cities, unless you're really on for a challenge.
If you are interested in driving yourself, see <a href="/en/Driving_in_China" title="Driving in China">Driving in China</a>.
Nanjing is situated on the Yangtze river. Scheduled passenger liner service is available along the Yangtze river between Shanghai downstream and Wuhan in the Hubei province upstream although the river is mostly used for transport of goods.
If you're staying more than a few days it's worth buying a Jinlingtong (also known as IC-tong). These are available from any metro station, most bus termini and from any branch of Huaxia Bank (look for an information window displaying the letters 'IC'). The card costs Y75 and contains Y25 refundable deposit and Y50 credit, and can be topped up at the aformentioned locations. The card can be used on the metro, all city buses (but not all suburban buses), cross-river ferries, taxis (although drivers are reluctant to accept them and may tell you the scanner is broken) and in some Suguo convenience stores.
Taxis are a great way to get around and most trips will cost less than ¥25. The taxi driver should start the meter as soon as you are picked up (starting at ¥9); if the taxi driver doesn't start using the meter and you don't say anything he/she may assume you don't know any better and overcharge you at the end of your journey. Ask for a printed receipt detailing the taxi number, kilometres travelled, times, and money exchanged from the driver upon exiting the taxi. Don't expect to get a taxi during both the morning and afternoon rush hours; demand is high and the drivers make their shift changes around these times, too. Tipping is not expected in taxis in China, so the price on the meter is the price you should pay. Unlike taxi drivers in Beijing or Shanghai (who frequently shuttle foreigners around and may be accustomed to gratuity under the table) tipping in Nanjing is an alien concept. You are likely to befuddle but please a driver by insisting that they accept additional 'free' money. As with anywhere else in China, you are very unlikely to get a driver who speaks any English, so unless you speak Mandarin remember to get your hotel's business card and get hotel staff to write down your destination names in Chinese to show your taxi driver before you set off.
The metro is a clean, cheap, safe and fast way of getting from A to B quickly - the system has 2 lines and covers most of the central city. The lines are as follows:
<i>Line 1</i> runs from Maigaoqiao in the north, via the railway station and along the length of Zhongshan Lu through the city centre to Andemen - from there the line splits with alternate services going to the Olympic New Town area around the Olympic Sports Centre and to the south towards China Pharmaceutical University via the new South High-Speed train station. Services between Maigaoqiao and Andemen run every 3 minutes, and every 6 minutes on each branch line.
<i>Line 2</i> runs from the new town area in the west and follows Hanzhong Lu and Zhongshan Donglu to the east, terminating nearby the Purple Mountain scenic area. Trains run every 6 to 8 minutes. There are interchanges to Line 1 at Yuantong and Xinjiekou stations.
Trains run from approx. 5am to 11pm. Single-journey tokens cost between 2 and 4 yuan depending on distance and can be purchased from vending machines in the station. Stored-value tickets are also available (see above) and give a 5% discount.
Nanjing is currently constructing many additional metro lines in preparation for the Nanjing Youth Olympics, which will be held in 2014.  In addition to Lines 1 and 2, Nanjing will have Lines 3, 4, 6 (only the section which will run between Nanjing South Station and Nanjing Lukou International Airport), 10, 11, and 12.  These are set to be completed at the end of 2013 or early 2014.
Buses are handy for getting around - particularly places that are inaccessible by subway, although Nanjing's bus system feels a little aged compared to Hangzhou and Shanghai and has no English information. However, Google Maps displays bus services for Nanjing and some tourist maps such as those sold around the train station will have bus routes.
Buses running within the city proper will carry a route number displayed on a red placard below the front windscreen next to the entrance door. Low-numbered routes (1-100) follow major thoroughfares and link major shopping, residential and transportation hubs. 3-figure route numbers follow indirect routes and run around quieter residential streets and are less handy for travellers, but can be an interesting way of seeing Nanjing's ordinary working class neighbourhoods. Routes displaying the Chinese character for 'you' (travel) are primarily aimed at tourists and link all the major tourist sights. Routes numbered '8XX' e.g. 801, 806, 813 etc are night buses which run approximately twice an hour between 11pm and 5am when the regular service ends. Buses heading to surrounding suburban towns depart from hubs on the edge of downtown such as Nanjing Train Station (North/East), Changjiang Daqiao (Yangtze River No.1 Bridge - going north-west), Hanzhongmen (West) and Zhonghuamen (South/East). These services display the name of the suburb/town that they serve in Chinese characters and have no route number.
Fares are a flat 2 yuan on numbered services except for some routes which run older non-airconditioned buses which charge 1 yuan - no change is given so have some coins ready. For suburban routes, fares are charged by distance and a conductor collects the fares. There's a discount of 20% for IC card users. Note that many bus stops are some distance apart (often 3-4 blocks) so keep an eye out for your stop and an ear out for the stop's name on the PA announcements (which are only in Chinese). If the bus is quiet then press the buzzer next to the door to signal to the driver that you want to alight.
Nanjing is fairly cycle-friendly with segregated bike lanes on most busy roads - however there are a lot of bikes on the road so care should be taken. Generally, the pace is quite slow, and some of the hills in the central-west part of the city can be tiring to climb (but fun and a little scary to descend). Although it's possible to cycle up the Purple Mountain, it should be tackled in the early morning as the roads will be crammed with fast-moving bus and taxi traffic for most of the day, and the roads are narrow with no bike lanes. The bike/pedestrian path around the edge of Xuanwu Lake is a popular place for cyclists, as well as a popular racing ground for local motorcyclists - take care on the many blind corners.
Bikes can be rented from most youth hostels - ensure that the tires are pumped up and the brakes work before setting off though.
Buying a bike is relatively easy and cheap - the best option is to get a good quality used (possibly stolen) bike from the bike markets around Tangzi Jie (behind the Sheraton hotel) for &#165;100-200. The cheap bikes sold in department stores and supermarkets are very poor quality and shouldn't be relied upon. For higher-quality, higher-performance bikes; Giant, Trek and Specialized all have stores in Nanjing. Rembember to carry a strong lock - bike theft is common.
The city pass can be bought for ¥200 at the entrance to any of the big parks in the city, such as the zoo or Yuhuatai Memorial Park and provides you with free entry to 21 different locations including Purple Mountain but excluding the Confucius Temple and some other temples. You need to provide a passport photo for each pass and they are valid for one calendar year.
Some say that Nanjing is all about Tombs. Plan an entire day just exploring the mountain and surrounding areas. The park has a shuttle "train" you can ride and is included in the price of certain tickets. There is also a cable car going up the hill for ￥35 one-way and ￥60 round-trip, or you can walk. The area is home to the tombs of three very important emperors:
A <b>Purple Mountain pass</b> might be worth buying if you plan on visiting 2 or 3 of the parks on the mountain. The Purple Mountain pass can be bought for ￥100 at the entrance to Sun Yat-sen's Memorial (and possibly at any of the other parks on the mountain) and provides you with entry to nine parks.
All of the universities and various other schools hire language teachers. See <a href="/en/Teaching_English" title="Teaching English">Teaching English</a> for ideas on how to find a job teaching English overseas.
Locally, jobs - including frequent requests for native speakers of less widely taught languages such as Italian and German - are often advertised on the bulletin board at Skyways; see the "Eat" section for its location.
Local specialties include xiaolongbao (小笼包), thin skinned dumplings filled with soup and meat, that are served steaming hot in baskets and tangbao (汤包), which are similar, but much larger and filled with crab meat and soup. The soup in these is drank with a straw. Restaurants serving these can be found all over Nanjing usually in small hole in the wall restaurants or dining halls (餐厅) for cheap. You'll usually be able to find them served along side yaxue fensi duck blood noodles (鸭血粉丝) another local specialty.
<br />
Night life in Nanjing is very much alive, and you can find the epicentre in Nanjing's <b>1912 District</b>, which is comparable to Shanghai's <a href="/en/Shanghai/French_Concession" title="Shanghai/French Concession">Xintiandi District</a>. It is roughly a city block of two and three-story buildings, with paved courtyards between. Almost all are restaurants, bars or nightclubs, with a few spas and upmarket clothing shops in the mix. Many of the buildings look like they might have been around since 1912, and the newer ones match the style of the older ones. The location is great; right downtown just west of the Presidential Palace. There is underground parking for cars and extensive outdoor parking for bikes and motorcycles on the north side of the complex.
The area around Shanghai Lu, which runs between Nanjing University and Nanjing Normal University, has quite a few expats - mainly foreign students or English teachers from the two universities - and some places that cater to them. On Shanghai Lu near Guangzhou is "Blue Sky", an Aussie-owned bar with good music and a free pool table. Moving north from there is the Behind-the-Wall Cafe with reasonable Mexican food and drink. You can find good music just off Shanghai Lu, and one location for good Italian food and drink (Jack's), is on the last corner before Beijing Lu.
"Ellen's" on the intersection of Shanghai Lu and Guangzhou Lu is a popular student spot.  It is a western-style restaurant during the day and transitions into a bar around 8pm every night.  It fills up every night with expats and foreign students, as well as plenty of young locals.  Most are drawn because of the atmosphere, music, and nightly drink specials (a popular one is "Free Beer Hour" between 8 and 9pm on Thursdays, in which you can drink unlimited Tsingtao free of charge).  The drinks are plentiful. A whisky and Coke "bucket" is &#165;25, and for many people contains enough alcohol to last the night.  Make sure to get there early for a table, write your name on the wall, and say hi to Xingxing.
The Castle Bar on Zhongyang Lu (close to the Gulou intersection and right next to McDonalds) is Nanjing's most popular student/expat dive and is most crowded (and smokey) on Friday and Saturday nights. Entry is free and drinks are cheap (Y15 for a bud, Y10 for a tequila) and has live music on Saturday nights.
Other popular expat drinking spots include Jimmy's (on Hanzhong Rd West, just past the Bank of China) which is next to the YESBar nightclub/KTV and has excellent burgers, pizzas and Mexican food as well as a good choice of imported beers (mostly Australian) for about &#165;20-30 a bottle and also has hookah pipes with various flavoured tobaccos (but no illegal substances, although they also stock Rizla Superking rolling papers... they're hard to come by in China).
Finnegans Wake Irish Bar is an authentic  Irish bar on the Cinnalane development just north of Sanshan Street subway station, just off Zhongshan South Road (walk down the pedestrianised street next to the underground car park entrance - the bar is on the left). The bar has excellent food (meals are in the &#165;100 range) which use ingredients sourced from Ireland and there is a good choice of drinks including Kilkenny and Guiness (&#165;70 a pint). Good news if your tab gets too high - they take VISA cards!
Nanjing offers a wide variety of accommodations ranging from cheap hostels to five star hotels. Find short term rentals on <a rel="nofollow" class="external text" href="https://www.airbnb.com/s/Nanjing--China?af=452944&amp;c=wiki">Airbnb</a>
Good news! Nanjing is now officially the safest city in China - this was the honour of Hangzhou until a recent rise in hotel robberies put Hangzhou in the headlines. This doesn't mean there is no risks. Pickpocketing is a problem in Fuzimiao as well as on crowded buses, the subway and around the main transport hubs. Because Nanjing has a relatively small number of foreigners for a city its size, the common scams seen in Shanghai and Beijing are almost non-existant, however you may still see the occasional dodgy salesman selling counterfeit goods in Fuzimiao.
Be careful if taking the bus to the airport from Zhonghuamen bus station as many touts claim to be the official bus service, however there is a strong risk of being overcharged or driven to a location several kilometres from the actual airport. The official bus departs from Gate 7 and tickets should be paid for at the gate. Bus Tickets are ¥20 as of March 2010. The fee remains the same in July 2012. Also be careful of fake taxis operating from the bus stations and occasionally the railway station - always use the official taxi stand and ignore any taxi touts.
Although traffic is slightly calmer than most Chinese cities it can still be much more manic than most Western countries - take the usual precautions when crossing the road and also remember that right turns on a red light are sometimes legal in China(however in Nanjing most of the case there should be a dedicated right turn signal for right turn lane) so people driving across the crosswalk while the 'walk' sign is showing aren't actually breaking the law. Also be careful of motorbikes and bicycles driving on the pavement.
Many older Nanjingese may have a resentment towards the Japanese because of the events during World War II. If you are Japanese, don't let this put you off visiting as the locals will still be very welcoming, however it's recommended not to appear too conspicuously Japanese and keep any opinions to yourself. Younger Nanjingese are more open and will often be more than happy to discuss the war.
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
